GWEN IFILL: Good evening.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
tonight: Hurricane
Matthew pummels Haiti, as fierce
145-mile-an-hour
winds and torrential rains carve
a devastating
path.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this
Tuesday: Tim
Kaine and Mike Pence take center
stage.
What to watch for in tonight's
vice presidential
debate.
GWEN IFILL: And from the
classroom to the
campaign trail -- why Oklahoma
teachers are
running for political office to
turn the state's
failing education system around.
ANGELA CLARK LITTLE, Oklahomans
for Public
Education: A lot of legislators
feel like
because they went to school,
they are education
experts.
Well, I have been to a Thunder
game, and I
can't play basketball.
There's a difference.
You have to bring the subject
matter experts
to the table.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Reports are just
beginning
to trickle in tonight, but
already it's clear
Hurricane Matthew has sent
long-suffering
Haiti even deeper into misery.
There's word of at least seven
dead and widespread
wreckage.
MAN: This is Matthew.
Pray for us!
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's one of the
fiercest Caribbean
storms in years, and its
powerful core roared
over the southwestern tip of
Haiti before
dawn, with winds of 145 miles an
hour.
Emergency officials reported
major damage,
roots ripped apart, trees torn
out of the
ground, and roads and bridges
underwater.
Forecasters had said the storm
would dump
as much as 40 inches of rain on
the poorest
country in the Americas.
Jacqueline Charles is a reporter
from The
Miami Herald.
She spoke from Port-au-Prince,
the Haitian
capital.
JACQUELINE CHARLES, The Miami
Herald: We have
rivers that are beginning to
rise.
There's one major bridge that
connects the
capital with the north.
And police basically blocked
traffic from
using that bridge because it's
now become
a dangerous situation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After crossing
Haiti, the hurricane's
center moved on during the day
to strike Eastern
Cuba tonight, not far from the
U.S. Naval
base at Guantanamo Bay.
Its approach sent people fleeing
across the
region.
MAN (through translator): Last
night was terrible.
The waves were enormous, to the
point where
I thought they were going to
enter the house.
They were very big.
They were worse than now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Overnight, the
slow-moving
Matthew is set to barrel through
the Eastern
Bahamas.
It's projected to head toward
Florida at the
end of the week, and push its
way up the U.S.
East Coast over the weekend.
Today, Florida Governor Rick
Scott was out
telling people to start getting
ready without
delay.
GOV.
RICK SCOTT (R), Florida: Once
this storm comes,
we cannot put our
first-responders in harm's
way.
You must leave before it's too
late.
You can rebuild a home, you can
rebuild a
business, you cannot rebuild a
life.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hurricane watches
are now up
for the southeastern parts of
Florida.
And farther up the coast, South
Carolina's
governor has announced plans to
evacuate one
million people.
And for the very latest on
Matthew, we turn
to the National Hurricane
Center.
I spoke with its director, Rick
Knabb, in
Miami just a short time ago.
Rick Knabb, welcome.
First of all, where is this
storm right now?
RICK KNABB, Director, National
Hurricane Center:
Right now, Hurricane Matthew is
centered in
between Haiti and Eastern Cuba,
will clip
the eastern tip of Cuba this
evening.
Then it will be headed toward
the Bahamas.
And it's still going to be
impacting Haiti
and Cuba for many, many hours to
come.
It's not just a point on a map.
It's a pretty big and powerful
hurricane,
still a Category 4.
It's not just about wind either,
heavy rainfall,
likely flash floods and
mudslides affecting
Haiti and the Dominican
Republic, and that
could spread into Eastern Cuba,
and then the
Bahamas, hurricanes warning for
the entire
length of the Bahamas.
They're going to be impacted
starting tomorrow.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You said it's a
powerful storm.
Compared to other hurricanes,
how do you describe
it?
RICK KNABB: It is similar to
many other past
major hurricanes that are
Category 3 or stronger
on our five-tier hurricane wind
scale.
And Matthew's sustain winds are
140 miles
per hour.
So those are the maximum winds,
but the tropical
storm-force winds can extend out
to almost
200 miles from the center.
So it's a big and powerful
system.
And what we're really concerned
about is a
large number of folks in the
Bahamas being
impacted, but also then we're
forecasting
this turn to the northwest.
Florida, and Georgia, South
Carolina, North
Carolina are all threatened,
with Florida
being first, hurricane watches
in effect for
portions of the southeast coast
of Florida.
We even had to extend that a
little farther
south to include Broward County,
the Fort
Lauderdale area, here at 5:00
p.m.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what are you
able to determine
in terms of how strong it's
going to stay?
RICK KNABB: It's not going to
interact with
land enough to significantly
weaken it.
It's good that it's not spending
too much
time over Eastern Cuba tonight.
And then, as it's over the
Bahamas, that's
mostly a water environment.
The islands there probably are
not going to
cause it to weaken.
The waters are very warm, the
atmosphere conditions
still conducive for this to
remain a major
hurricane for the next few days.
And that means it's not
impossible for a major
hurricane to make landfall
somewhere in the
state of Florida this week.
And it's also possible for
hurricanes to directly
or indirectly impact Georgia,
South Carolina,
and North Carolina.
So, we have been talking to
emergency managers
in all of these areas today, and
we urge folks
to pay attention, do whatever
their local
officials are telling them to
do.
And here in South Florida, where
we live,
today and tomorrow and tomorrow
night is the
time left to prepare before the
weather starts
going downhill down here on
Thursday morning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Rick Knabb,
when is the
next alert you're going to be
issuing?
RICK KNABB: We issue full
updates, with a
complete new forecast every six
hours.
So, that will happen again at
11:00 p.m. Eastern
time tonight.
We do issue intermediate public
advisories
every three hours in between to
update on
the intensity and on the
position as we continue
to fly hurricane hunter aircraft
into and
around the hurricane.
But the next complete forecast
and major changes
that we would potentially
communicate with
watches and warnings will happen
again at
11:00 p.m. and then again at
5:00 a.m.
So, people on the East Coast of
the U.S.,
just don't tune out.
And take preliminary
preparations, so you
know what you're going to do if
watches and
warnings are issued for your
area later.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I know
everyone is going
to be paying very close
attention.
Rick Knabb with the National
Hurricane Center,
we thank you.
RICK KNABB: Thank you, Judy.
GWEN IFILL: In the day's other
news: The way
is now clear for the Paris
climate change
accord to take effect.
European Union lawmakers gave
their endorsement
today.
The overwhelming vote means the
accord has
the backing of countries
accounting for 55
percent of global emissions,
more than enough.
MARTIN SCHULZ, President,
European Parliament
(through translator): Our vote
opens the way
to ensuring that the whole
agreement can achieve
the necessary threshold figures
so as to come
into worldwide implementation.
GWEN IFILL: The E.U.'s member
states are to
make the approval official on
Friday, and
present it to the U.N.
The Paris accord formally takes
effect 30
days later.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's a new
surge in the
flow of migrants trying to reach
Italy from
Libya.
The Italian coast guard reports
more than
6,000 people were rescued on
Monday alone,
as seas calmed for the first
time in days.
Meanwhile, another 1,000
migrants have been
brought into ports today.
So far, 132,000 have arrived in
Italy this
year.
Another 3,000 have died in the
attempt.
GWEN IFILL: Russia airstrikes
blasted Eastern
Aleppo in Syria again today.
But rebels said they repelled a
ground assault
on the southern part of the
city.
Just yesterday, the U.S.
suspended direct
talks with Russia on the
conflict.
This morning, Secretary of State
John Kerry
said that doesn't mean the Obama
administration
is giving up.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: We will
continue, as we have before, to
pursue a meaningful,
sustainable, enforceable
cessation of hostilities
throughout the country, and that
includes
the grounding of Syrian and
Russian combat
aircraft in designated areas.
And Russia knows exactly what it
needs to
do in order to get that
cessation implemented
in a fair and reasonable way.
GWEN IFILL: And Moscow announced
it has deployed
an advanced surface-to-air
missile system
in Syria for the first time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A U.S. military
service person
was killed by a roadside bomb in
Afghanistan
today.
It happened during operations
against Islamic
State militants in the east.
Meanwhile, in the north, Afghan
forces in
Kunduz regained control of most
of the city.
The government troops drove back
Taliban militants
who attacked a day earlier.
It came nearly a year after
Taliban gunmen
held the city for three days.
GWEN IFILL: In economic news,
new worries
about Britain's exit from the
European Union
weighed on Wall Street.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 85 points
to close at 18168.
The Nasdaq fell 11 points, and
the S&P 500
slipped 10.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And three
British-born scientists
who teach in the U.S. have won
this year's
Nobel Prize in physics.
David Thouless, Duncan Haldane
and Michael
Kosterlitz were recognized for
their research
into rare states of matter.
It paved the way for designing
new materials
for electronics and future
quantum computers.
Haldane is now a physics
professor at Princeton.
DUNCAN HALDANE, Nobel Prize
Winner: It's a
very gratifying recognition of
the work.
I mean, it's -- I don't think
one goes into
the business for prizes.
You're kind of trying to find
neat stuff,
basically.
Everyone wants to find neat
stuff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The other
recipients are affiliated
with the University of
Washington and Brown
University.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Donald Trump
and Hillary Clinton focus on the
swing states,
as their running mates prepare
for tonight's
debate; what to expect from the
only vice
presidential face-off; plus, the
implications
of a deadlocked Supreme Court;
and much more.
GWEN IFILL: The vice
presidential nominees
step out of the shadows tonight
for their
lone debate.
They are at Longwood College in
Farmville,
Virginia, for their 90-minute
face off.
Lisa Desjardins is there, and
she begins our
coverage.
LISA DESJARDINS: They previewed
the Virginia
debate site less than an hour
apart, first
Republican Mike Pence, then
Democrat Tim Kaine,
scouting out the Longwood
University stage
ahead of their one and only vice
presidential
showdown.
For both, it's an opportunity to
help the
ticket, while trying to avoid
pitfalls.
Consider 1988, when Republican
Dan Quayle
likened himself to a youthful
John F. Kennedy,
and drew that famous rebuke from
Democrat
Lloyd Bentsen.
LLOYD BENTSEN (D), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
Jack Kennedy was a friend of
mine.
Senator, you are no Jack
Kennedy.
LISA DESJARDINS: Then there was
2000, when
two experienced politicians and
debaters met,
Democrat Joe Lieberman and
Republican Dick
Cheney.
JOE LIEBERMAN (D), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
I can see my wife, and I think
she's thinking,
gee, I wish he would go out into
the private
sector.
DICK CHENEY (R), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
Well, I'm going to try to help
you do that,
Joe.
(LAUGHTER)
LISA DESJARDINS: While this
year's debate
participants were prepping
today, their top-of-the-ticket
running mates were out stumping.
Hillary Clinton, not far from
Philadelphia,
talked about her proposals to
help families,
and went after Donald Trump on
the way he
talks about women.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Think about it.
My opponent insulted Miss
Universe.
I mean, how do you get more
acclaimed than
that?
But it wasn't good enough.
We need to laugh at it, we need
to refute
it, we need to ignore it, and we
need to stand
up to it.
LISA DESJARDINS: First lady
Michelle Obama
was also campaigning for Clinton
again, this
time in Charlotte, North
Carolina.
MICHELLE OBAMA, First Lady:
Hillary Clinton
is tough.
See, I have watched her.
When she gets knocked down, she
doesn't complain.
She doesn't cry foul.
No, she gets right back up.
LISA DESJARDINS: As for Trump,
he was in a
traditional Republican
stronghold, Arizona.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
She complains about how I have
used the tax
laws of this country to my
benefit.
Then I ask a simple question:
Why didn't she
ever try to change those laws,
so I couldn't
use them?
LISA DESJARDINS: This morning,
campaign manager
Kellyanne Conway defended him
against a New
York Times report that he might
have paid
no income taxes for 18 years.
She insisted he paid plenty in
taxes.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, Trump Campaign
Manager:
The fact is, this man has paid
hundreds of
millions of dollars in taxes
over decades,
excise taxes, federal payroll
taxes, city
state and local taxes, real
estate taxes,
property taxes.
QUESTION: You didn't say income
taxes.
But you didn't say income taxes.
KELLYANNE CONWAY: Well, he
certainly has,
in the years that he made a
profit.
Like anybody else, he paid
income taxes.
LISA DESJARDINS: Meanwhile,
Libertarian nominee
Gary Johnson raised more
questions today,
arguing that his admitted lack
of foreign
policy knowledge is a positive,
that it could
prevent wars.
GARY JOHNSON, Libertarian
Presidential Candidate:
You know what?
And the fact that somebody can
dot the I's
and cross the T's on a foreign
leader or a
geographic location then allows
them to put
our military in harm's way.
LISA DESJARDINS: For tonight,
though, the
focus is on the V.P. face-off.
And then it's full speed ahead
to the second
Trump-Clinton debate, on Sunday
night.
And, Gwen and Judy, late
tonight, we asked
Gary Johnson's campaign to
respond to his
quote today.
And they responded to us late
tonight saying
that Gary Johnson wasn't making
a serious
argument, that he was being
tongue-in-cheek
-- back to you.
GWEN IFILL: OK, Lisa.
Well, that's an interesting
response.
Let me ask you about the scene
down there
in Farmville, Virginia.
Last weekend, we worked up to
the first presidential
debate.
There was so much excitement
about how many
people would be watching, about
what would
happen, what wouldn't happen.
Is it fair to say it's not
exactly the same
tonight?
LISA DESJARDINS: I think that's
right, but
maybe in a good way.
It is actually an incredibly
relaxed atmosphere.
Of all the debates that I have
covered, Gwen
and Judy, I have never been at
one that sort
of had this kind of nice feeling
to it.
Maybe it's because we have got
these two Midwesterners
debating tonight, maybe because
it's the vice
presidential debate, maybe
because people
are just tired of all the
attacks.
But there is a very almost
casual atmosphere
here that I haven't experienced
at a debate
before.
One example, I was walking in
the spin room,
and noticed some very
high-ranking Trump campaign
officials just walking around.
No one was noticing them, not
any reporters.
I was the only reporter who went
up to talk
to them.
They also seemed more at ease
than you would
expect in a spin room just hours
before a
debate, so a very different
atmosphere indeed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Lisa, is the
expectation
we are going to hear more
tonight about these
vice presidential candidates,
the running
mates, or about the folks at the
top of the
ticket?
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
LISA DESJARDINS: I think that we
will hear
about both, but I think that
when you talk
to the campaigns,
representatives of both
campaigns told me today that
they are hoping
for a policy debate, but that
they don't expect
one.
These two vice presidential
candidates have
had a lot they have had to
defendant in the
past month-and-a-half, and we
expect that
to continue tonight.
Of course, a lot depends on the
questions,
but then the candidates can turn
those questions
around.
And we will see if either one of
them goes
on the attack tonight, maybe
some policy,
but maybe it's a case of fasten
your seat
belt.
It's going to be a politely
bumpy night, something
like that.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: A politely bumpy
night.
Thanks.
We will ask you about that later
on.
Lisa Desjardins, thank you very
much.
As the campaigns prepare for
tonight's debate,
we turn to representatives of
both parties
to tell us what to expect.
We begin with Matt Schlapp,
chairman of the
American Conservative Union.
He also served as political
director in the
George W. Bush White House.
When we talked a short time ago,
I began by
asking what Mike Pence needs to
accomplish
tonight.
MATT SCHLAPP, Former White House
Director
of Political Affairs: You know,
I think his
job, his primary job is to
connect with that
heart and soul of the Republican
Party, and
that's the conservative base.
And that conservative base is
trying to get
to know this guy, Donald Trump,
and be comfortable
with him.
And it's Mike Pence's number one
priority
to connect with them, to close
the deal with
them, bring back those
conservatives and Republicans
who are still thinking about who
they're going
to vote for on Election Day.
GWEN IFILL: I have heard more
analogies having
to do with Mike Pence's role in
this debate
tonight, from cleanup to
Swiffer, to -- none
of them complimentary, all of
them about Mike
Pence having to defend Donald
Trump.
Is that his principal role here
tonight?
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, well, all
vice presidents
have to be the number one
cheerleader for
the top of the ticket.
But I actually don't think
that's what this
debate is going to be about
tonight.
I think actually what we're
going to have
tonight is a very conservative
public servant
against a very liberal public
servant.
And in our own ratings, Mike
Pence has a 99
percent and Tim Kaine has a zero
percent.
So, we might have a very solid
ideological
conversation of what it means to
be a conservative
and what it means to be a
liberal and why
one philosophy is the right
philosophy in
2016.
GWEN IFILL: Matt Schlapp, one of
the big differences
between the two candidates
tonight, for instance,
on taxes is that Donald Trump
will not release
his income tax statements, but
Mike Pence
already has.
How does he explain that?
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, I think
that's probably
-- I think that's going to be
one of Kaine's
strategies, to try to put Mike
Pence on the
defense.
And I'm sure Mike Pence, who I
know well,
and I'm sure he is very ready
for this moment,
is going to be ready to also put
Tim Kaine
on the defense, for the fact
that Hillary
Clinton has been involved in
scandal after
scandal after scandal.
And it's one of the reasons why
the American
voters in all the polls show
that they don't
find her honest and trustworthy.
It's her number one problem that
she has got
to find a way to mend between
now and Election
Day.
GWEN IFILL: I think it's fair to
say that
Mike Pence and Donald Trump come
from opposite
ends of the personality
spectrum.
Do you think that their
differences help or
hurt the Trump-Pence candidacy?
MATT SCHLAPP: I think the
differences make
for a good team.
Mike Pence is kind of a steady
Midwesterner
who comes from kind of a base of
the -- he's
an ideological firebrand.
He understands the conservative
philosophy
well.
And Donald Trump is a complete
outsider, is
a relatively new Republican, and
he doesn't
even talk like politicians.
He talks like a New York
businessman.
And, together, I actually think
Trump is reaching
out to these blue-collar
working-class Americans
across the country like the
Republican Party
has never been able to do
before.
We have always had trouble with
that bloc.
And I think Mike Pence is able
to reach out
to those steady conservatives,
those lifelong
Republicans and say, look, take
a chance with
this guy because, together,
we're going to
make a great team for the
country.
GWEN IFILL: Taking a chance.
Here's one of the things about
vice presidential
debates, and that people often
expect a vice
presidential candidate to do
fine, as long
as he or she doesn't make a
mistake.
MATT SCHLAPP: Right.
GWEN IFILL: So, is it a good
night for Mike
Pence if he simply gets away
without making
a mistake?
MATT SCHLAPP: I think so.
I think -- actually, I think,
for both of
them, I don't think either one
of them has
to worry too much about -- I
mean, they're
going to make a mistake, Gwen.
You have been there.
You have seen it.
They're going to make small
mistakes.
I don't see either one of them
making a big,
huge gaffe.
They're pretty steady political
pros.
And I also think, if Tim Kaine's
number one
job is to help Hillary Clinton
be a little
more likable and smile and be
charming and
be himself, that's a pretty low
bar for someone
to have to pass.
And I think, for Mike Pence, his
job is to
once again hit those themes
which he lives
and understands and passionately
believes
in.
GWEN IFILL: Matt Schlapp, thanks
so much.
MATT SCHLAPP: Thanks, Gwen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now we hear
from the Democrats.
Donna Brazile is interim chair
of the Democratic
National Committee.
Welcome to the program, Donna
Brazile.
So, we just heard Matt Schlapp
say that Tim
Kaine's main job is going to be
make Secretary
Clinton more likable.
Is that right?
DONNA BRAZILE, Interim Chair,
Democratic National
Committee: I think, tonight, Tim
Kaine is
going to build upon what I
believe was a terrific
debate by Hillary Clinton last
week.
She outlined her plans for the
American people.
She talked about job creation.
She talked about keeping us safe
and secure.
She talked about making sure
that college
is more affordable.
I think Mike Pence has a tough
job tonight
explaining to the American
people all of the
ridiculous things Donald Trump
has said, from
veterans, insulting veterans, to
insulting
women of a certain size, to
banning Muslims.
I think Mike Pence has a more
difficult job
tonight explaining the
differences between
him and Donald Trump on so many
issues.
Tim Kaine tonight, who is a
reasonable, down-home,
what I call a great public
servant, will be
able to tell the American people
what the
Clinton-Kaine ticket will be
able to do to
build upon the great success and
legacy of
Barack Obama as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, again
quoting Mr. Schlapp,
he said he thinks what Tim Kaine
is going
to have to do is defend
Secretary Clinton
tonight, and he said, in that
she's been involved
in -- quote -- "scandal after
scandal."
DONNA BRAZILE: I mean, what is
the biggest
scandal?
Of not paying your tax, not
releasing your
taxes, saying that you're smart
because you
don't abide by the rules, like
most of us,
and making sure that we can pay
for our roads,
making sure that we can educate
our children.
I think that's the greatest
scandal.
I also think that Donald Trump's
comments
again that he made overnight at
3:00 a.m.,
and there were different things
he said on
the campaign trail -- how does
Mike Pence
defend that?
How does he defend this notion
that President
Obama was somehow or another not
born in America,
the whole birther nonsense?
So, I think Tim Kaine's job
tonight is to
focus his remarks on the
American people.
This is about the future, having
a conversation
with the American people.
And I think Tim Kaine will be
able to get
the message across that we're
stronger together
when we come together as
Americans to solve
our problems.
And that's what tonight's debate
is going
to be about.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mentioned
what Donald Trump
has said on the trail.
We know that former President
Bill Clinton
said on the trail yesterday,
made some comments
about the health care reform
law, Obamacare.
He said that it's a crazy system
in which
half the American people,
hardworking people
have seen their premiums go up,
become more
expensive.
He did walk that back a little
bit today,
but is that something that
Hillary Clinton
is going to have to explain
herself?
DONNA BRAZILE: Well, look, I'm
sure that Tim
Kaine will be able to explain it
tonight.
He's been a strong supporter of
the Affordable
Care Act.
Over 20 million Americans now
have health
insurance because of that.
Bill Clinton has been a champion
for health
care reform.
So has Hillary Clinton over the
years.
And so I think it's important to
understand
that the law is good.
It's strong.
People with preexisting
conditions are now
able to have access to health
care.
Millions of Americans who live
below the poverty
line have access to what I call
life quality
medicine, Medicaid expansion
that I just saw
in my home state of Louisiana.
So, what Bill Clinton was
talking about, I
believe, are the improvements
that we'd like
to see in expanding the
marketplace, ensuring
that people have that people
have subsidies
to be able to afford it.
And those Americans who own
small businesses
and others who are not able to
get the subsidies
that they need or to have what I
call more
marketplace protections, there's
no question
that even President Obama said
that we have
to focus on cost containment.
But, look, the issue tonight is
that the Democrats
believe in expanding health care
for all.
We believe in making sure that
people have
lifesaving medicines.
The Republicans want to repeal,
and Donald
Trump said he wants to replace
it with something
terrific that we don't know what
that means.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Donna Brazile,
finally, we
saw Hillary Clinton in last
week's debate
with Donald Trump at the last
minute, in effect,
set a trap for him.
She brought up the comments
about Miss Universe.
Maybe Tim Kaine does something
like that tonight?
(LAUGHTER)
DONNA BRAZILE: You know, Tim is
smart on his
feet, and he also -- he is
bilingual.
So maybe he will say it in
Spanish.
But, regardless of how he says
it, most Americans
will see Tim Kaine as a man of
principle,
someone that Hillary Clinton
picked because
he's a future leader, he's a
visionary, and
he's a strong leader.
And let me just say something.
I think Tim Kaine is going to
bring up the
fact tonight that, when it comes
to women
in this society, we're the
majority of voters,
the majority of college
graduates.
Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine
believe in equal
pay, and Mike Pence doesn't.
So there are many issues,
whether it's making
-- Mike Pence went out of his
way to say that
Planned Parenthood shouldn't be
funded.
Mike Pence went out of his way
to put forward
policies that were discriminated
against the
LGBTQ community.
So, Tim Kaine has a great
record.
Hillary Clinton is a great
leader, a visionary.
I think, tonight, you are going
to see a contrast
in two candidates, one who is
optimistic and
has a plan for the future, and
another one
who is trying to drag us back to
someplace
in the past that nobody wants to
go to.
That's Mike Pence.
Tim Kaine is the candidate of
the future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Donna Brazile,
it's great to
have you with us.
Thank you.
DONNA BRAZILE: Always good to
hear your voice
and see you, Judy.
GWEN IFILL: For more on
tonight's debate,
we're joined now by syndicated
columnist Mark
Shields, Amy Walter of The Cook
Political
Report, and Washington Post
columnist Michael
Gerson.
Hey, Amy, did you notice
something I just
noticed with Donna Brazile,
which is, when
she was asked about something
that Bill Clinton
said, which is widely
interpreted to be a
gaffe, she responded by saying
Tim Kaine will
respond that tonight?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Tim
Kaine can help clean that up.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: Cleanup in aisle
six.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
AMY WALTER: Bring Tim Kaine over
there.
Look, both of these candidates
were brought
on, Tim Kaine and Mike Pence,
on to be stabilizers for Hillary
Clinton and
Donald for Trump, for different
reasons, for
Donald Trump, literally a
stabilizer, in that
both his personality and his
ability to talk
to that core conservative base
that Matt Schlapp
was talking about, so to make
them feel better.
And Tim Kaine was there to sort
of stabilize
the Hillary Clinton -- not
expand her base,
but hold on to a lot of her
base, and also
to prove to be a very different
kind of candidate
without the baggage that Hillary
Clinton comes
with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields, how
do you see
the mission of these two men at
-- the second
man on the ticket in both cases
tonight?
MARK SHIELDS: Obviously, as said
earlier,
not to make any mistakes, but
most of all,
Mike Pence has a tougher task.
He does -- stop the bleeding or
however you
want to put it.
It's been a terrible week for
the Trump campaign
ever since the first debate.
He's been assigned the task of
being the explainer-in-chief.
He's had to clean up in the past
after Mr.
and Mrs. Khan.
He said, we honor Gold Star
parents.
I mean, he said that to a
partisan crowd.
He's time and again had to sort
of right the
wrongs.
And I think that is his -- to
try the change
the narrative as much as he can.
Tim Kaine, it's interesting.
The happiest I have ever seen
Hillary Clinton
in any public setting was the
day that she
chose Tim Kaine.
She was beyond giddy.
She was just happy.
And she had somebody she could
totally depend
upon as a partner.
And I think it was the best
decision of her
campaign, in the sense of, you
couldn't get
a Republican to say anything bad
about him.
In Washington and the toxicity,
to have somebody
like Tim Kaine -- and so I think
his job,
again, is going to be the
explainer, or defender,
or whatever, but to -- I would
just remind
people, Tim Kaine in 2007 at
Virginia Tech.
And I have never seen anybody
handle a public
situation...
GWEN IFILL: After the shooting.
MARK SHIELDS: Just after the
tragedy of 32
people being murdered by a
deranged person
with a gun.
And I have just never seen
anybody handle
it better.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
Michael Gerson, so, vice
presidential debate,
do they ever help, or are they
more likely
to hurt?
MICHAEL GERSON, The Washington
Post: Well,
it's interesting.
They're often memorable.
They're seldom consequential,
don't really
determine the outcome.
(LAUGHTER)
MICHAEL GERSON: And this is a
strange one,
though, in a certain way.
These are not strange men.
It's a strange circumstance,
where the republic
might be better served, and a
lot of people
might agree that both tickets
could be flipped
and actually have more appealing
candidates.
GWEN IFILL: They say that about
the Libertarian
ticket, too.
MICHAEL GERSON: Right.
Yes.
So, that could be -- that's
interesting, because
it's an indictment of sorts of
the system,
that our primary system has
chosen two of
the least popular politicians in
America.
But the selection, the people
they selected
as vice president are actually
very respected
in their party, knowledgeable
people, so,
you know, the selected
candidates better than
the elected candidates, maybe.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Amy, when all
is said and
done tonight, we don't know
what's going to
happen, does the election, does
the direction
of this election change after
tonight?
AMY WALTER: Well, remember, in
2012, after
Barack Obama's first -- after
the first presidential
debate, he was widely panned for
having an
off night.
And you saw Democrats panic.
And the polls started to dip.
And it was Joe Biden's job to go
in and basically
reassure Republicans -- I mean
Democrats -- reenergize
Democrats, keep them -- keep
their chin up.
That's what Mike Pence will have
to do tonight
as well, is to reassure a lot of
those Republicans
who are worried, as well as go
on the offense,
something that Donald Trump
didn't do well
in the first debate.
I actually think this -- while
it might not
be consequential, I think we
might see a much
more aggressive debate than
we're expecting,
because Mike Pence really does
have to put
Kaine and the Hillary Clinton
campaign back
on its heels.
And so this may not be the nice,
genteel,
lovely sort of experience that
people are
expecting.
GWEN IFILL: Briefly, which one
is better equipped
to do that job, that Swiffer
job, that cleanup
job tonight?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, Pence has
the tougher
task, whether, in fact, he can
do it.
It's more immediate and urgent
that he do
it than Kaine do it.
MICHAEL GERSON: Yes.
No, I agree with that.
I talked to some of the people
that prepared
Pence today.
And they need to explain,
because they have
to respond to charges, but then
not give get
into the quicksand of just
explaining, because
that would be a loss.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We are going to
be all watching
closely.
You will all be here with us in
just about
two-and-a-half-hours from now.
And we ask all of you watching,
tune in at
9:00 p.m. Eastern for our
special live coverage
of the vice presidential debate.
And, online, you can follow
along at PBS.org/NewsHour
for more in-depth analysis.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
teachers tired
of the status quo step into
politics and onto
the ballot; and a tribute to the
man retiring
as the voice of the Dodgers.
The U.S. Supreme Court's refusal
this week
to rehear a key immigration case
dealt a setback
to millions of undocumented
immigrants hoping
to stay in the U.S. legally.
It also reflects the continuing
difficulty
of deadlock, in this case, the
limitations
of an eight-person bench.
The issue of the immigration
program's legality
could yet return to the high
court, but one
whose makeup is likely to be
decided by the
next president.
Twelve-year-old Victoria
Bonilla, like many
seventh graders, spends
weeknights hammering
away at her homework.
Unlike her classmates, she
worries her mom
won't always be there to help.
VICTORIA BONILLA, Student: I'm
worried that
they might take my mom away from
me, which
is really hard for a kid,
because, like, you
know you can't live without your
mom.
GWEN IFILL: Victoria is an only
child and
a U.S. citizen.
But she was born to a mother who
came to the
country illegally, from Eli
Salvador in 2004.
The Bonillas live in
Gaithersburg, Maryland,
a Washington suburb, where
Hilaria works as
a restaurant manager.
She says she moved to the U.S.
to escape domestic
abuse, one of an estimated four
million parents
who would have qualified for
legal status
under a 2014 executive action
issued by President
Obama.
The president's plan was blocked
by a Texas
federal judge last year, leaving
families
like the Bonillas in limbo.
The court deadlocked 4-4 when it
heard the
case earlier this year, leaving
the lower
court's hold in place.
And with the ninth seat vacant
since Justice
Antonin Scalia's death nearly
eight months
ago, there is no resolution in
sight.
"NewsHour" regular Marcia Coyle
covers the
court for "The National Law
Journal."
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
This is such an important issue,
it may be
well that the court is willing
to take another
shot at it if it does have a
ninth justice
eventually.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I chose a serious man and an
exemplary judge,
Merrick Garland.
GWEN IFILL: President Obama's
nominee, Merrick
Garland, chief judge of the D.C.
Court of Appeals, has languished
without a
confirmation hearing since
March, after the
Republican Senate majority
declared it was
too late in the president's term
to allow
him a nomination.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: The
American people may well elect a
president
who decides to nominate Judge
Garland for
Senate consideration.
The next president may also
nominate somebody
very different.
Either way, our view is this:
Give the people
a voice in filling this vacancy.
GWEN IFILL: The conservative
Judicial Crisis
Network has spent more than $4
million opposing
Garland's confirmation.
CARRIE SEVERINO, Judicial Crisis
Network:
The Constitution gives the
authority to choose
the Supreme Court justices to
the president,
as the nominator, and then to
the Senate,
which gives its advice and
consent.
And there's a lot of ways it can
do that.
It doesn't have to have hearings
or votes
on a specific schedule.
And, historically, two-thirds of
the justices
who have not been confirmed,
who've been rejected
by the Senate, it's been because
they didn't
get a vote.
SEN.
HARRY REID (D-NV), Minority
Leader: All we're
asking is for the Republicans to
do their
job.
Now, Mitch McConnell set out and
he did it
publicly.
His number one goal was to make
sure Obama
wasn't reelected.
He failed at that miserably,
just like he
is going to fail miserably here.
We are going to have a Supreme
Court justice.
It's the right thing to do.
GWEN IFILL: Michele Jawando
follows the Supreme
Court for the liberal Center for
American
Progress.
MICHELE JAWANDO, Center for
American Progress:
The Supreme Court is supposed to
be the final
arbiter of the most difficult
constitutional
and statutory questions in our
country.
And if they can't make a
decision to move
us in a direction that the
framers intended
for us to move forward on, then
we have a
major problem.
GWEN IFILL: It is also clear
that the Scalia
vacancy is not the only worry
for those most
concerned about the court's
future.
MARCIA COYLE: If you look at the
ages of the
justices who are currently on
the Supreme
Court, the potential is very
high that the
next president would be able to
fill not only
one seat, but possibly as many
as three and
maybe even four.
GWEN IFILL: That makes Supreme
Court appointments
a campaign issue; 65 percent of
registered
voters told Pew Research this
year that Supreme
Court appointments are -- quote
-- "very important."
Seventy percent of Trump
supporters said the
same, compared to 62 percent of
Clinton supporters.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
One of the reasons this election
is so important
is because the Supreme Court
hangs in the
balance.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Even if you can't stand Donald
Trump, you
think Donald Trump is the worst,
you're going
to vote for me.
You know why?
Justices of the Supreme Court.
GWEN IFILL: Even Texas Senator
Ted Cruz, who
called Trump a pathological liar
during the
campaign, told conservative
radio host Glenn
Beck that the future of the
court drove his
decision to endorse Trump last
month.
SEN.
TED CRUZ (R), Texas: Almost
every one of our
constitutional rights hangs in
the balance.
We have a narrowly divided court
with Justice
Scalia's passing.
Just about every right we
cherish is at risk
of being lost.
GWEN IFILL: That makes Hillary
Clinton supporters
like Michele Jawando nervous
about what a
Trump court would look like.
MICHELE JAWANDO: There are
questions about
if he even understands the
constitutional
contours of his role as
president.
There've been questions about,
does he understand
what due process is or what
constitutional
protections are available to all
Americans?
GWEN IFILL: Whether the court is
made up of
eight or nine justices, that
political divide
could make it more powerful than
ever.
"National Law Journal"'s Marcia
Coyle:
MARCIA COYLE: The political
polarization that
we have been experiencing in the
last eight
years has driven more
organizations and people
to turn to the courts for
answers to some
of the questions and issues that
Congress
has not been able to address.
And that has raised the profile
of the U.S.
Supreme Court.
And it also has made the Supreme
Court loom
much larger in every American's
life than
it has been perhaps in recent
decades.
GWEN IFILL: And for Hilaria
Bonilla and her
daughter, this election's
outcome will hit
close to home.
Will they stay or will they go?
HILARIA BONILLA, Immigrant: We
never know.
So, we are going to work and we
never know
if we can come back or not.
So, it's difficult.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In some parts of
the country,
it's not just the presidential
race on voters'
minds.
State elections are taking
center stage in
some places, too, like Oklahoma,
where education
is at the forefront of the
ballot.
Teachers are upset over spending
cuts and
what they see as a political
assault on public
education.
They have decided it's time to
take matters
into their own hands.
A record number of teachers are
running for
seats in the state legislature.
All of this comes as Oklahoma
faces tough
budget decisions.
Special correspondent Lisa Stark
of our partner
Education Week reports from
Oklahoma as part
of our weekly segment Making the
Grade.
LISA STARK: Football is king in
Oklahoma,
so it's no surprise the Norman
High School
homecoming parade shuts down the
town's main
street.
There's candy for the kids,
cheerleaders,
and athletes, of course, and
enjoying the
ride, Oklahoma's teacher of the
year, whose
day job is deciphering algebra
for ninth graders
at Norman High.
This is Shawn Sheehan's sixth
year teaching.
So, you love being a teacher?
SHAWN SHEEHAN, Oklahoma State
Senatorial Candidate:
I do.
I love it.
I love working with kids.
I really do.
And I love math.
That sounds super nerdy, but I
do love math.
LISA STARK: So, it may seem odd
that Sheehan,
Oklahoma's top teacher, is ready
to hang up
the white board.
SHAWN SHEEHAN: I made the
decision to run
for state Senate.
I think what it is, is, we have
is a lack
of representation at the state
capitol.
We have folks up there who don't
really understand
what's going on in education and
what's going
on in our communities.
LISA STARK: He's not the only
one who feels
that way.
Sheehan has joined more than 40
educators
who have filed to run for the
Oklahoma legislature.
Why do you think so many
educators are running
this year?
SHAWN SHEEHAN: I think, in this
state, educators
are finally fed up.
And it's almost like a sense of,
we don't
have anything to lose at this
point.
LISA STARK: Oklahoma schools
have already
lost a lot.
The state ranks 47 out of 50 in
per-pupil
spending.
And since 2008, the legislature
has cut spending
per student by 24 percent, the
largest drop
in the nation, leading to
teacher layoffs,
overcrowded classrooms.
More than 100 districts have
approved four-day
school weeks.
Teachers and parents are riled
up.
DAVID BOREN, President,
University of Oklahoma:
They are really concerned about
the education
of their children.
LISA STARK: David Boren is
president of the
University of Oklahoma, and a
former U.S.
senator and governor.
DAVID BOREN: We're headed for
dead last in
what we spend in the nation
among all the
states on the education of our
students, and
we're losing our best and
brightest teachers
to all the states that surround
us, because
they pay so much more in their
salaries, every
single one of them.
So, we're at a crossroads.
LISA STARK: Salaries average
about $45,000
a year, including benefits.
It's so hard to attract teachers
that the
state this school year has
already approved
more than 900 emergency
certifications.
Currently, an estimated 50,000
students are
relying on these teachers, who
may not be
fully qualified to take over a
classroom.
GENE PERRY, Oklahoma Policy
Institute: And
that's troubling.
LISA STARK: Gene Perry is the
policy director
at a progressive Oklahoma think
tank.
GENE PERRY: What I think it's
shown is that
experience and that training is
the most important
thing to have to be an effective
teacher,
and we're putting untrained
people in the
classroom.
LISA STARK: Educators say they
have tried
to change things from outside
the capitol,
rallying for more money for
education.
Instead, lawmakers cut taxes,
even when the
state's oil industry was
booming.
Now the industry's in a slump,
and there's
no money to spare.
JUDY MULLEN HOPPER, Oklahoma
State Senatorial
Candidate: Hello, sir.
I'm Judy Mullen Hopper.
LISA STARK: So, educators are
now trying to
get inside the capitol.
Judy Mullen Hopper is vying for
the state
Senate.
She retired after 35 years as a
special-ed
teacher, unhappy over the
emphasis on testing.
JUDY MULLEN HOPPER: But our
biggest concern
right now is education, and
being able to
finance it correctly, being able
to allow
teachers to teach the way they
used to teach,
you know?
MICKEY DOLLENS, Oklahoma State
House Candidate:
I just wanted to come back by
and ask for
your vote on November 8.
LISA STARK: Mickey Dollens is
campaigning
for the state House, one of
1,500 Oklahoma
teachers let go last spring
because of budget
cuts.
MICKEY DOLLENS: I am sticking up
for education,
mental health, senior citizens,
and public
safety.
That's where all my time and
attention will
go into.
Check out my campaign
headquarters.
LISA STARK: His headquarters?
Right behind his front door.
MICKEY DOLLENS: These are
probably the most
important parts right here, the
follow-up
thank-you letters.
I try to hit a 100 doors a day.
LISA STARK: Dollens was a
college football
player, a Team USA bobsledder,
even drilled
for oil, before he became a high
school English
teacher.
He's reinventing himself again.
How to win a local election?
MICKEY DOLLENS: Mm-hmm.
LISA STARK: A complete
step-by-step guide.
MICKEY DOLLENS: Yes, I read them
all.
LISA STARK: Dollens and the
other educators
running for office have been
dubbed the teacher
caucus.
WOMAN: We're definitely going to
go vote for
you.
MICKEY DOLLENS: Well, thank you
so much.
WOMAN: We really support you.
MICKEY DOLLENS: Mostly Democrats
running in
this very conservative state.
ANGELA CLARK LITTLE, Oklahomans
for Public
Education: This is our list of
candidates
our group supports.
LISA STARK: Angela Little can
take some credit
for this swell of education
candidates.
A suburban single mom with twin
fifth graders,
upset over increased school
testing, she started
a Facebook group two years ago
for parents
and teachers to share ideas.
This year, she put out a call
for candidates
to challenge -- quote --
"anti-public education
legislators."
The idea took off.
So did the Facebook group.
It now has 25,000 members.
ANGELA CLARK LITTLE: A lot of
legislators
feel like because they went to
school, they
are education experts.
Well, I have been to a Thunder
game, and I
can't play basketball.
There's a difference.
You have to bring the subject
matter experts
to the table.
CLARK JOLLEY (R), Oklahoma State
Senator:
These people who are running to
put more money
in education, to do more for
education, I
think they are going to quickly
find out,
whoa, we have got other things
we have to
fund too.
LISA STARK: State Senator Clark
Jolley has
chaired the Senate
Appropriations Committee
for five years, and has seen
Oklahoma's economy
nosedive, as gas prices
plummeted.
Mid-last year, lawmakers
suddenly faced a
$1.3 billion deficit.
Even so, Jolley says education
got more than
it's fair share.
CLARK JOLLEY: We actually are
giving more
money to education at the end of
my tenure
than we were at the beginning.
The problem is that we have
got...
LISA STARK: But not more money
per student.
CLARK JOLLEY: We have got more
students coming
in than we have money coming in.
And so, because of that, we're
seeing a decrease
in the per-pupil expenditure,
even though
we're putting tens of millions
of more dollars
in education every year.
LISA STARK: But what legislators
didn't do,
voters are being asked to, on
the ballot,
a measure to raise the sales tax
by 1 percent
for education, including money
to boost teacher
salaries by $5,000 a year.
University President Boren is
its chief backer.
DAVID BOREN: It's not a perfect
solution,
but we can't sit here and wait.
Are we going to wait until we
have 100,000
students in classroom with no
teachers, qualified
teachers?
Are we going to go to three-day
school weeks?
How long are we going to wait
before we go
over Niagara Falls, so to speak,
in a barrel?
LISA STARK: It's clear some
voters aren't
convinced.
They see waste in the system,
too many school
districts, too many
administrators.
MAN: And our teachers are
complaining about
not being paid enough?
Well, where is all this money
going to?
Every year, we ask for more and
more money
for education.
LISA STARK: Regardless of what
happens at
the polls, educators feel that,
by running
in such large numbers, they have
made a difference,
that they have changed the
conversation around
education here in Oklahoma.
JUDY MULLEN HOPPER: Come help
me.
Just push it down.
Can you do it with me?
Put your hand right here.
LISA STARK: It's a conversation
these novice
candidates hope will sink in
with voters.
JUDY MULLEN HOPPER: OK, here we
go.
And...
LISA STARK: Reporting from
Oklahoma, I'm Lisa
Stark of Education Week, for the
"PBS NewsHour."
JUDY MULLEN HOPPER: And can you
vote for me?
Can you vote for me?
GWEN IFILL: And finally tonight:
As the baseball
playoffs get under way, one of
the game's
legendary figures, Vin Scully,
is signing
off; 88-year-old Scully called
his last Los
Angeles Dodgers game on Sunday.
That closed an incredible
67-year career that
started back when the Dodgers
called Brooklyn
home.
Jeffrey Brown spent a day at the
ballpark
with Scully in 2009.
Here's an excerpt of that
profile.
VIN SCULLY, Los Angeles Dodgers
Broadcaster:
It's time for Dodger baseball.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JEFFREY BROWN: It's a voice that
generations
of Dodger fans have grown up
with, savored,
loved.
VIN SCULLY: Ground ball to
third, backhanded
by Blake.
He straightens up to throw him
out.
Easy inning for Randy Wolf.
JEFFREY BROWN: In Los Angeles,
but also, incredibly,
going all the way back to
Brooklyn in the
1950s.
VIN SCULLY: The pitch at the
right ankle of
Andres Torres.
Ball one.
Now, admittedly, there are days
where you
think, you know, I'd rather sit
under a tree
and read a book than go to the
ballpark.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
Everybody has those days, right?
VIN SCULLY: But what's great is,
you come
to the park, you do the routine
stuff, and
then the crowd comes in, and the
team takes
the field, and the crowd roars.
And, all of a sudden, you're
delighted as
a kid in a candy store.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's exactly
where you want
to be.
VIN SCULLY: Exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: In an age when
the sports broadcast
booth is crammed with two or
even three announcers,
Scully still prefers to work
alone.
VIN SCULLY: Sanchez a strike,
and the count
0-1.
JEFFREY BROWN: His style,
mastery of language,
and, yes, longevity have made
him a legend
in sports circles.
It all began, he says, with
lessons in attitude
from his mentor, Red Barber,
another broadcasting
great, who gave Scully his first
big break
and brought him into the booth
in Brooklyn
in 1950.
VIN SCULLY: One of my many jobs
as the junior
partner of the broadcasting firm
would be
to get the lineups every day.
And let's say that, one day, I
brought up
a lineup where Smith was hitting
in front
of Brown.
The next day, I brought a lineup
up and Brown
was hitting in front of Smith.
Red would ask me, why?
And the first time he asked me
why, I didn't
know.
However, after that, I knew.
And that was part of Red: Be
there early,
be very well-prepared, and then
you're ready
to go on the air.
JEFFREY BROWN: Who are you
talking to when
you're doing the game?
I mean, you're one of the few
who still does
it alone for the most part.
So who are you talking to?
VIN SCULLY: Well, first of all,
I have to
make people understand, it's not
an ego thing.
It's not that I just want to be
on all by
myself.
This goes back to Brooklyn,
where Red's philosophy
was simply this: If I want to
sell you a car,
is it better for me to talk to
you about the
merits of the car or talk to
so-and-so and
have you listen to our
discussion about the
merits of the car?
Red always felt that it was
better to talk
one-on-one.
So what I'm doing, I'm talking
to the listener.
And I will talk.
I will say, oh, by the way, I
forgot to tell
you, or...
JEFFREY BROWN: I forgot to tell
you.
VIN SCULLY: Exactly, talking --
because I
don't want the microphone to be
in the way.
I want them to know I'm sitting
next to them
in the ballpark talking.
Yankee Stadium shivering in its
concrete foundation
right now.
JEFFREY BROWN: He called the
only perfect
game pitched in a World Series,
Don Larsen's
gem for the Yankees against the
Brooklyn Dodgers
in 1956.
VIN SCULLY: Got him!
The greatest game ever pitched
in baseball
history by Don Larsen!
JEFFREY BROWN: Nine years later,
Scully was
there for Sandy Koufax's perfect
game.
VIN SCULLY: Sandy into his
windup.
Here's the pitch.
Swung on and missed! ha perfect
game!
High fly ball into right field,
she is gone!
In a year that has been so
improbable, the
impossible has happened.
JEFFREY BROWN: And then there
was the famous
1988 World Series walk-off home
run by a hobbled
Kirk Gibson.
That crowd noise and the silence
from the
broadcast booth is another
Scully trademark.
VIN SCULLY: When I was very
small, maybe 8
years old, we had a big radio
that stood on
four legs, and it had a
crosspiece underneath
it.
And I used to take a pillow and
crawl under
the radio.
And I would listen to a game
that meant nothing
to a kid growing up in New York.
I mean, it might be
Tennessee-Alabama.
But when someone scored a
touchdown and the
crowd roared, that crowd noise
would come
out of the speaker like water
out of a showerhead,
and it would just cover me with
goose bumps.
And I used to think, oh, I would
like to be
there to feel that roar of the
crowd.
And it's never left me to this
day, so that,
when something happens, I love
it to shut
up and hear the crowd.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you're still
enjoying what
you're doing?
VIN SCULLY: I love it.
And you know how I know I love
it?
Because, when there's a great
play on the
field and the crowd roars, I
still get goose
bumps.
I'm just like that little kid
under the radio.
Bases loaded, sixth inning, one
out.
And a drive to left field down
the line.
It is gone, a grand slam home
run!
GWEN IFILL: Those goose bumps
were back in
2009.
Scully, who was a childhood fan
of the San
Francisco Giants, said the
greatest ballplayer
of his lifetime was Willie Mays.
So, on Sunday, Mays joined him
in the booth
for his final game between the
Dodgers and
their rivals, the Giants.
After the game, he said farewell
to his fans.
VIN SCULLY: You and I have been
friends for
a long time, but I know in my
heart that I
have always needed you more than
you have
ever needed me.
And I will miss our time
together more than
I can say.
But you know what?
There will be a new day and
eventually a new
year.
And when the upcoming winter
gives way to
spring, oh, rest assured, once
again, it will
be time for Dodger baseball.
So, this is Vin Scully, wishing
you a very
pleasant good afternoon,
wherever you may
be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tune in later
tonight.
On "Charlie Rose," tennis star
Maria Sharapova
talks to Charlie after
authorities reduce
her two-year suspension for
failing a drug
test.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
now.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us at 9:00 p.m. Eastern
time for a special
live coverage of the vice
presidential debate
between Democrat Tim Kaine and
Republican
Mike Pence.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and see you soon.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and see you soon.